---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /About/
---

I moved to the UK at the age of 5 from China and grew up near London. I studied Economics at the London School of Economics and then worked for a consulting firm in London. Although I had the chance to travel to many different countries with my consulting job, I had only lived in one city. I made the move to work in Singapore and then Hong Kong were I currently live. From my travels, what I have found is that despite many surface level differences, there is greater similarity between workplaces than differences. People face the same challenges, conflicts and aspirations whether it is London, Istanbul, Bucharest, Singapore or Hong Kong.

My first job was with Oliver Wyman as a consultant for the financial services industry. The work was varied with equal amounts of number crunching in Excel / SAS and qualitative research to create Powerpoint presentations. It was a tough job but was a great first job. I regularly worked 70-90 hours a week and learnt to hold myself to a high standard. In addition to basic analyst skills, the experience provided me with a good knowledge of how the banking industry works.

Despite my experience working for Oliver Wyman, I was unprepared for the politics of working for a large organisation like Standard Chartered. Junior consultants are shielded by their seniors in the consulting firm and by its nature, consulting work often has a senior sponsor from the client's company. After moving to work in the Credit Risk Analytics team at Standard Chartered, I had to handle far more of the politics myself. Without a senior sponsor, far more tact and diplomacy was required in all interactions.

After a short period working in Singapore, I had moved to HSBC in Hong Kong and I was quickly learning how to get things done in such large organisations. I learnt to communicate upwards to make sure that senior sponsors supported our work. I learnt to create informal collaborations with other departments where we could find common cause. Perhaps most important of all, I learnt to manage a team of analysts from diverse backgrounds. By diverse, I do not just mean from different nationalities but people at different stages of their life, with different ambitions in their career and different levels of academic achievement. While it seemed difficult at first, it became simple once I realised that it really came down to understanding what people wanted and helping them achieve it through their work. Often, this was as simple as asking "What do you want?" and finding a way that it can be achieved while also helping achieve my goals.

So finally this brings us to the data science. While learning the softer skills needed to survive in large organisaitons, I had noticed the world outside banking develop analytical tools and approaches that were more advanced than those employed in the banking industry. I made a point to spend time outside work learning Python and machine learning to keep my skills relevant. As I start to learn, it was immediately obvious that this technology had the potential to completely change the way teams were structured. Why have dedicated data warehousing teams who try to second guess business needs when Hadoop can transform large amounts of raw data on demand? Why have different teams handle model development and model implementation when now it can be done with a few extra lines of Python code? However, change will always create winners and losers meaning it's always important to consider the human dimension. This is not just a matter of altruism but change will happen faster if the majority of people want it. For example, offering retraining for data warehousing staff can speed up the adoption of external cloud. By making their future in the new world secure, they will actively help to make their old roles redundant. This is true not just for organsiations but also for society at large.

Personally, I'm glad that my career has taken me into an industry that is in the process of transforming society and the world. I look forward to making my own contribution and in making sure that it benefits people, organsiations and society at large.
  
